[Music]
hey let's take a deep dive into ocean
waters to see which of these
creepy looking animals are our friends
we're swimming in the tropical waters of
nanyana balava island near
fiji can you see those giant creatures
the size of a volkswagen beetle
those are manta rays they've got a long
whip-like tail
and large flat diamond bodies there are
two species of manta rays
the reef manta ray and the giant manta
ray
they belong to the same family as sharks
but they only have
small teeth in their lower jaw they feed
on zooplankton
tiny fish and crustaceans manta rays are
social animals and they like people
once you let them come close to you
they'll swim around you to observe you
don't chase them though because they're
super fast swimmers
their name translates to cloak or
blanket
and out of all sea creatures they've got
the largest brain compared to body
weight ratio
these fellas can recognize themselves in
a mirror
the asian sheep's head wrasse follows
even if it seems unsightly
it's one of the friendliest fish you'll
come across in the shallow waters of
japan china and korea
it has protrusions on both his jaw and
head
it likes to hide in its anemone and it's
usually scared to go out
even at 40 inches long one of these
fellas developed a friendship with the
japanese scuba diver 30 years ago
when the diver found the fish it was
injured and he helped it recover
the diver had been the caretaker of an
underwater shinto shrine
he calls the fish by hitting the
underwater bell
time to go swimming with the largest
fish in the world the whale shark
though these creatures are sharks they
have a lot in common with
whales they can live for 100 years
though they've got tiny brains they're
indifferent to humans
these fellas don't care about anything
they can't eat
and unlike other shark species they
won't bite you
whale sharks are filter feeders they do
have teeth
3000 of them but they don't use them
they've got a massive mouth like me but
their throat is only the size of a
quarter
next we have the sunfish a fish without
a tail that looks like has been cut in
half
it has large fins and when you see it
breaching on the surface
you'll think a shark is approaching the
sunfish dives deep in the water to let
other fish exfoliate his skin and remove
parasites
once they're done it returns to the
surface to sunbathe
it's also a voracious eater if it sees
you in the waters
it'll likely approach you and observe
you within a day
you'll be able to feed it from the palm
of your hand
time for the animal that looks like it's
always smiling the bottle knows dolphin
it's one of the most social sea
creatures and it travels in groups
it enjoys playing hunting raising calves
and helping out his community bottomless
dolphins are excellent swimmers
with speeds reaching 19 miles per hour
they usually come up to the surface to
breathe air through the blow hole on
their head
these creatures are great communicators
and they send messages to each other
they use echolocation to navigate and
find food
when they spot people they become very
friendly so much
that they let their guard down and it
makes them vulnerable to other sea
creatures such as sharks
heading to the pacific coast we'll come
across some gray whales
their skin is covered with parasites and
other organisms
that make their snouts look like rough
pieces of rock
we got to get on their nice side first
gray whales can attack a large boat a
ship or a vessel
if they sense their calves are in danger
but generally they're friendly and
appear
unbothered by rowing kayakers in some
cases
they'll approach small boats and allow
humans to touch them
though you're required by law to keep
your distance if it wants to get closer
it will if it feels threatened it will
act aggressively
now let me show you a fish with a tool
on its head
the hammerhead shark their skull helps
them with hunting
their eyes are placed on the hammer's
outer edges
and gives them a 360 degree vertical
view
but they've got a blind spot in front of
their nose
their heads are like metal detectors
most of what they want is below the sand
surface
so they lightly dip their heads in the
sand and sweep up
whatever is under there you'll see them
in temperate and tropical waters
both near the shorelines and offshore
they usually move in groups
they're mostly harmless to humans and
divers but there have been a few
occasions where they got aggressive
but before they do they'll give you a
bunch of warning signs
and divers know how to handle them
now i'll show you something kind of
smaller the sea lion
these creatures are a bit tricky they're
playful aggressive
arrogant smart and above all curious
sea lions can't breathe underwater but
they can dive almost a thousand feet
deep
and they can hold their breath for a
long time they take in air through their
nose
and once they dip their heads in the
waters their nostrils slam
shut if they spot humans at the beach
they'll stay away and wait for them to
leave
wild sea lions aren't the friendliest to
anyone especially if they feel
threatened
the approachable ones have been trained
in captivity
beluga whales are next they're white
with bulgy heads
and they're amongst the most social and
loudest you'll ever meet
their upwards facing mouths make them
look like they're smiling
when beluga whales are born they're a
dark gray shade
it takes eight years for their skin to
turn white
they can change the shape of their heads
by blowing air around their sinuses
beluga whales love humans once they make
human friends
they don't want to leave even though
they're wild animals they become
too entrusting with people marine
biologists suggest staying away
for their safety have you heard of sea
cows
those are actually called manatees
you'll see some in rivers and others in
the ocean
even though they're large they usually
stay in shallow coastal areas
munching on sea grass leaves and algae
manatees bring their heads to the
surface every four minutes or so to
breathe
but they can hold their breath longer
than that they're slow
travelers and even if they aren't as
smart as dolphins
they can understand colors these fellas
are gentle giants
and they like to approach humans
searching for warmth
next we've got the basking shark the
second largest shark in the world
their mouth is their most impressive
feature like me
since they can open more than three feet
wide
okay you win these creatures have an
intimidating appearance
but despite their size they're harmless
to humans
and divers swim with them they're very
social and can form schools of 100
individuals
they swim near the water surface filter
feeding on plankton
they too have a bunch of teeth that they
don't use
do you know which creature can sing loud
songs for 30 minutes
i know barry manatee that might be
before your time
actually it's the humpback whale
scientists aren't sure why they make
those low
howls and noises they might be trying to
communicate with others to attract mates
you'll see them near coastlines feeding
on tiny food
and they use their flukes to propel
through the water humpback whales are
less friendly than gray whales because
they're very cautious
but they're the heroes of the ocean they
try to save
other animals from orcas and experts say
they're capable of decision making and
problem solving
on one occasion a humpback whale jumped
in to save a whale biologist from a
tiger shark
now let's try to spot the expert in
disguise
the caribbean reef octopus the
specialized color cells
help it blend in with the sand and ocean
rocks rough texture
but caribbean reef octopuses are loners
and they like to get around
on their own this creature is also teeny
tiny
it can grow almost five inches and with
their legs getting as long as the
average person's foot
if you get too close to them they'll
likely turn blue and warn you that they
feel threatened
even though they're trusting it's better
to keep your distance to keep them calm
a weird looking creature walks around
like a living vacuum cleaner down in the
ocean's pitch black depths
i'm talking about sea pigs they got
their name from their pinkish bodies
and they fit in the palm of your hand
these creatures don't swim
they walk around on the seafloor their
legs consist of five to seven
pairs of enlarged tube feet and they
have tentacles around their mouths to
fiddle through the mud to find
scum to munch on yumbo
since they're vulnerable they have
poisonous skin for protection against
other sea creatures
if you encounter one it'll be quite
friendly but if you want to keep it as a
pet
you'll need a very deep tank speaking of
slimy water creatures
let's talk about comb jellies they're
friendly animals that like to swim
close to the shore on warm summer
evenings there are two types of comb
jellies
some with two tentacles and some without
any
you can spot them at night since they
glow in the dark and light up the waters
one of them is the sea gooseberry on the
sand it looks like a transparent blob of
jell-o
and it can fit into a teaspoon unlike
jellyfish
comb jellies don't sting because they
don't have stinging cells
and they're safe to swim with